# Effects of Personal Identities on Strip Searches in the Criminal Justice System
## Brief Summary
This project presents a study on the effects of personal identities, including race, gender, and age, on strip searches in the criminal justice system. Using a dataset of over 65,000 samples from the Public Safety Data Portal of Toronto Police Service, we conducted ANOVA and ANCOVA tests to analyze the relationship between strip search rates and perceived racial and sexual bias as well as age discrimination. We also investigated whether the likelihood of items found at arrest differed based on strip search outcomes and other personal traits of the arrestee.
## Findings
Our findings suggest that certain personal identity of the arrestee, including race and age, have significant impact on the strip search rate, whereas sex has little impact on the strip search rate for this dataset if we include the effect of unisex. The arrest count also has a significant impact on the strip search rate. However, there is a negative relationship between strip search rate and arrest count, which indicates whether the arrestee is a habitual offender does not have a significant impact on the police’s decision to conduct a strip search. Lastly, the conduct of strip search does not have an impact on the likelihood of items found at arrest. 
## Limitations and Recommmendations
There are limitations to our study, including the fact that we only had access to data from one police service in certain regions in GTA. Additionally, there are large portions of unknown values, such as the unknown race, which might significantly affect the result of our study. We were not able to control for all potential confounding variables in our analysis. Nevertheless, our findings suggest that there is a need for further research on this topic, as well as potential policy changes to reduce the impact of strip searches on vulnerable populations.
## Installation
If you would like to reproduce the analysis, you can find our code and data on our GitHub repository.
